kay foes factory farms confinement barns
whatever you may call them they have one
thing in common and it concerns us all
pigs poop and farmers need to do
something with it
mini barns use a deep pit system hog
manure is stored beneath the barns in
concrete pits
although farms have a few options the
one most widely used is fertilizer by
pumping the manure directly from the pit
to the transport truck no manure is
wasted or accidentally spilled
after the manure leaves the pit the
transport truck delivers this
nutrient-rich by-product to the slurry
wagon waiting in the field again the
manure is pumped directly from the truck
to the wagon to ensure a clean swap
the slurry wagon utilizes a knifing
system which injects a predetermined
amount of manure directly into the soil
the knifing system creates a trench
injects the manure and covers the manure
with soil by doing this the soil
receives the maximum amount of nutrients
it reduces the chance of runoff and
because it is immediately covered it
also significantly reduces odor to
further protect the environment and
prevent runoff from over application
both manure and soil are tested before
application to ensure the proper amount
is applied by following the rules and
regulations set by the Environmental
Protection Agency and enforced by the
Missouri Department of Natural Resources
we are protecting our environment
rebuilding topsoil by using a natural
fertilizer and growing better crops for
our family and yours
you